---
show: step
version: 1.0
enable_checker: true
---
# Error & Debugging

For whimsical reasons, programming errors are called bugs and the process of tracking them down and correcting them is called debugging.

There are a three kinds of errors that can occur in a program, and it is useful to distinguish them to track them down more quickly.

## 1. Syntax errors 

The compiler can only translate a program if the program is syntactically correct; otherwise, the compilation fails and you will not be able to run your program. Syntax refers to the structure of your program and the rules about that structure.

For example, in English, a sentence must begin with a capital letter and end with a period. this sentence contains a syntax error. So does this one

For most readers, a few syntax errors are not a significant problem, which is why we can read the poetry of e e cummings without spewing error messages.

Compilers are not so forgiving. If there is a single syntax error anywhere in your program, the compiler will print an error message and quit, and you will not be able to run your program.

To make matters worse, there are more syntax rules in Java than there are in English, and the error messages you get from the compiler are often not very helpful. During the first weeks of your programming career, you will probably spend a lot of time tracking down syntax errors. As you gain experience, you will make fewer errors and find them faster.

## 2. Run-time errors 

The second type of error is a run-time error, so-called because the error does not appear until you run the program. In Java, run-time errors occur when the interpreter is running the byte code and something goes wrong.

Java tends to be a safe language, which means that the compiler catches a lot of errors. So run-time errors are rare, especially for simple programs.

In Java, run-time errors are called exceptions, and in most environments they appear as windows or dialog boxes that contain information about what happened and what the program was doing when it happened. This information is useful for debugging.

## 3. Logic errors and semantics 

The third type of error is the logic or semantic error. If there is a logic error in your program, it will compile and run without generating error messages, but it will not do the right thing. It will do something else. Specifically, it will do what you told it to do.

The problem is that the program you wrote is not the program you wanted to write. The semantics, or meaning of the program, are wrong. Identifying logic errors can be tricky because you have to work backwards, looking at the output of the program and trying to figure out what it is doing.

## 4. Experimental debugging 
One of the most important skills you will acquire in this class is debugging. Although debugging can be frustrating, it is one of the most interesting, challenging, and valuable parts of programming.

Debugging is like detective work. You are confronted with clues and you have to infer the processes and events that lead to the results you see.

Debugging is also like an experimental science. Once you have an idea what is going wrong, you modify your program and try again. If your hypothesis was correct, then you can predict the result of the modification, and you take a step closer to a working program. If your hypothesis was wrong, you have to come up with a new one. As Sherlock Holmes pointed out, “When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.” (From A. Conan Doyle’s The Sign of Four.)

For some people, programming and debugging are the same thing. That is, programming is the process of gradually debugging a program until it does what you want. The idea is that you should always start with a working program that does something, and make small modifications, debugging them as you go, so that you always have a working program.