# Multi-Process Payroll Calculator

## Introduction

To optimize the calculator in the last challenge, supporting the use of the multi-process to process the employee payroll data, in order to improve the efficiency of computing when having a large amount of data.

The implementation process of procedures is as follows. Pay attention to the configuration file and the input of the staff data file require you to create and fill in. You can refer to the examples above:

```
$ ./calculator.py -c test.cfg -d user.csv -o salary.csv
```

Execution does not need to output information to the screen, while the implementation of a failure or an exception will show the error message to the screen.

It should be noted that the following methods must be included:


1. To start three processes, using process 1 to read employee payroll data; using process 2 to calculate taxes and social security, using process 3 to write data to the output of the payroll data file
2. The three processes are responsible for different tasks, and the process uses a mechanism for communication.

## Goal

You need to achieve these goals to complete the task

1. Saving location is `/home/labex/calculator.py`
2. The program must deal with employee payroll data in multiple processes and ensure that processes are synchronized.

## Prompt

*The following implementation plan is for reference only. It will involve knowledge points taught in the previous experiment.If you have enough understanding of the program, you do not need to follow the tips*

* To achieve multi-process based on multiprocessing module.
* To realize interprocess communication based on Queue
* After implementation is completed, you can consider whether the process can be calculated in the process of 2 as a process pool.


Finally, because the following challenge will require code you have written, please use the `download code` to save to the local or submit to your own Github.


## Knowledge Points

- Multi-process of Python3 
- Interprocess communication
- Function
